---
title: The First National Festival of LGBT History is now just around the corner!
authors: Festival Team
hero: "/images/blog/greenham.jpg"
tags: Festival News
teaser:
  - "Our schedule is nearly completed, venues are booked, and volunteers primed to present three centuries of history for adults and children of all ages."
  - "Trailblazing campaigners speaking at the event include Christine Burns MBE (Press For Change), Peter Tatchell (Gay Liberation Front), Mike Jackson (featured in the year's smash hit “Pride”), Stuart Milk (chair of the Harvey Milk foundation) and veteran ex-politician Linda Bellos OBE."
attachments: 
  -
    title: Information Pack [pdf]
    url: /attachments/lgbthistoryfest-infopack.pdf
---

Our schedule is nearly completed, venues are booked, and volunteers primed to present three centuries of history for adults and children of all ages. For a full infomation pack on all our fantastic speakers and events, see the right sidebar.

Trailblazing campaigners speaking at the event include Christine Burns MBE (Press For Change), Peter Tatchell (Gay Liberation Front), Mike Jackson (featured in the year's smash hit “Pride”), Stuart Milk (chair of the Harvey Milk foundation) and veteran ex-politician Linda Bellos OBE.

All main festival events are FREE! More popular events will be ticketed: full schedule and information on our website.
Saturday at Central Library uncovers personal stories and showcases three centuries of LGBTQ identity, from when George III was on the throne to the present day. Sunday at People's History Musuem explores power, resistance and empire: from Britain's role in exporting homophobic buggery laws to the Greenham Common Peace Camp.

[Read the full schedule](/schedule.html)

A Very Victorian Scandal (#AVVS) is a groundbreaking immersive theatre project, being performed over the festival weekend. The project will recreate scenes from the biggest police raid on an ‘LGBT’ event in British history: the UK's Stonewall moment. It was described in the press as "One of the foulest and most disgraceful orgies that ever disgraced any town…".

[Read more about the theatre](/index.html#theatre)

Schools OUT UK will host the Schools and Families festival strand. We will offer children, educators, parents and governors the chance to experience educational, fun, and inclusive activities for children of all ages.