---
title: "LGBT Collections at People’s History Museum"
authors: Catherine O'Donnell
tags: Contributor Blogs
hero: "/images/blog/phm.png"
teaser: 
  - "Catherine O'Donnell from People's History Museum talks about their extensive LGBT collection."
  - "Find out more about how you can donate to the archive or support us financially, and about the materials on display at the Museum."

---

At the People’s History Museum we have a number of collections of LGBT material, including banners, badges, posters and archives of organisations such as Lesbians and Gays Support the Miners.  We’re really keen to share and expand our collection.  Watch this short film to find out more about what we’ve got, what we want, and how it’s used.

<iframe width="420" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/i9mqomtJGgY" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe> 

If you’d like to donate any of your material or to make an appointment to view our LGBT collections please contact [chris.burgess@phm.org.uk](mailto:chris.burgess@phm.org.uk), [archive@phm.org.uk](mailto:archive@phm.org.uk) or call the museum on 0161 838 9190.

The People’s History Museum recently launched a new fundraising campaign called Join the Radicals.  If you would like to join the growing number of People’s History Museum supporters who feel passionately about what we do, and want to ensure that the stories of the radical heroes who fought for democracy and equal rights continue to be told, you can support us in a number of ways.  Make a donation, become a Radical Supporter or even sponsor a Radical Hero. 

Our Radical Heroes include Labour politician and gay rights activist Leo Abse.

Find out more [on our website](http://www.phm.org.uk/support-us).  The museum is a registered charity, with free admission, and your support will go directly towards our collections, exhibitions and Learning Programme. 
 
